One of the three servers is slow. What can be the possible reasons and how would you take care of these things?

Should you encrypt and then compress, or compress and then encrypt? why?

why yelp, why backend, tell me about your project, coding question: isomorphic string

REST API questions.

There is a HashMap contains 7 Keys, which is Monday through Sunday. Each key is corresponding to a List of (Start time, end time) pairs. The pairs is unsorted. What I have to do is to merge the time slots that are adjacent. And finally return another HashMap that contains the same structure but with merged time slots.

How would you improve the speed of a slowly loading web page?
Given a list of strings, arrange them such that all anagrams are grouped together.
I also got asked to say the big O time of my code too

Interviewer asked a LOT of questions about databases..why is it slow, how do you make it faster…

Anagram question..I implemented the std answer using hashtable..Interviewer said he didn&#039;t care about space complexity and asked me to come up with another answer. I implemented a solution using 26*n char count array ..he seemed happy..but i didnt get an onsite

1) What would you like to change in Yelp
2) What you know about Yelp?

Given
{
//"Restaurant Types"."[categoryNames]"
"American" : "[Burger, French fries, Potato Chips]",
"Italian":"[Pizza,Bread Sticks, Potato Chips]"
}
Assume this kind of data is given as input and loaded into your choice of Data Structure.
Using Category name return the no of resturarnt type. Ex: if i/p is Potato Chips, O/P should be : 2 (American and Italian).
Please mention your Data structure and logic.


 UNIX command to search for a specific text through files in a directory.
- Binary search v/s linear search.
- DNS resolution.
etc...
Then a programming test to be done and submitted in any language.
Phone interview 1:
- Given a log file with 1 entry per line, find out the 10 most frequently appearingentries.
- What happens when you request a page to be loaded in your browser.
Phone interview 2:
- Some more typical interview programming questions.

All interviews had many UNIX specific trivia style questions which required knowledge of UNIX utilities and their options.

Technical question - Write a c++ program to generate random numbers with weighted probability.

The first round was an easy phone interview. Most the questions test your basic knowledge about data structures, algorithms, dbms, OS, memory etc. The next round is a Skype interview.

Eg. How can you find all instances of a class.
  the question was, how can you find all instances of a class in a file. Answer would be "grep".

What are some exploits that web developers (particularly back-end engineers) have to keep in mind?

What do you think would you do at Yelp? What does your current working day is structured? A number
of technical questions (how many byte in 64bit, largest number of int32, immutable python type out of
list, tuple & dictionary, how do i find a function by name in a number of source-code files, what is
the HTTP port, what is…  
